- The communication pattern of a microservices architecture
definitely improves the ability to scale
and distribute the system, but it comes with a cost.
Blindly moving into this without acknowledging these costs
and working to mitigate them can cause
a catastrophic failure.
Every service invocation in a microservices architecture
is over remote network call.
As such, there is connection setup, tear down,
and wire latency on every single call.
This latency is relatively insignificant for a single call,
but as the code path becomes more and more complex,
that single call can become many.
In addition to the latency increases
of the calls themselves, as the traffic increases
and services come under more load,
the risk of latency in response time increases.
In a system based on remote invocation
of all service calls,
any latency added to the normal flow
can be detrimental to the system as a whole.
Latency in a low-level service,
or any service for that matter,
can become exponentially exaggerated in a model
where every call is remote.
At a certain point, this latency can develop
into a gridlock of the system as a whole.
While calls are waiting for responses,
delays can become unbearable.
When this occurs, there can be a catastrophic failure
of the entire system.
Another path to gridlock can arise
due to circular calls.
In a pure microservices architecture, any service
can call any other service.
This call stack can become circular
when a calling service is subsequently called
by some downstream service.
When this occurs, latency can become a problem
much more quickly, as multiple services
can depend on a service involved
in this circular call stack.
When deciding to move to a microservices architecture,
you must spend a significant amount of time
evaluating how to control such negative reactions
to gridlock and latency.
One such pattern is to use
a circuit breaker within your code.
In this pattern you build a standard flow
through your application,
and when latency rears its ugly head
and timeouts start occurring,
you then trip the circuit and execute a default behavior.
While you may suffer from reduced
functionality of your system,
it's often better to do that
than suffer a complete failure.
When the services are back to normal,
the circuit closes and the normal operation
through your systems returns.
Netflix, for instance, offers Hystrix
as an implementation of this pattern
to support their offerings.
If search is down, for instance,
the platform should still be able to allow users
to view movies.
By offering such a pattern within their software,
the web application or mobile applications
can still function even if search doesn't,
as this degraded level of performance
is the desired state.
Now you don't have to implement a circuit breaker
to solve for latency issues,
but at the very least you need a strong timeout logic
throughout your system to prevent gridlock
from crippling the system as a whole.
Strong timeouts, global distribution
of all service offerings,
scaling of individual services under load,
and leveraging patterns like circuit breaker
will help alleviate the issues when they do occur.
Again, knowledge is key to this.